Update how to share a pack or a game template (#289)
GDevelopApp/GDevelop-documentation: docs/gdevelop5/community/contribute-to-the-assets-store/index.md

---
title: Submit an asset pack
---

# Submit an asset pack

Publish on the GDevelop's Assets Store, you can publish royalty-free or public domain assets, or even [sell your own unique game art](/gdevelop5/community/sell-asset-pack-store).

GDevelop streamlines the integration of assets into game projects, eliminating the need for manual editing the assets. To ensure seamless compatibility with the Asset Store, submitted art must adhere to specific technical requirements. These constraints are easily managed within the engine: simply create objects with your art, configure the objects appropriately, and GDevelop will handle the necessary processing to export your assets in a `.gdo` file format ready for the Asset Store.

Before integrating your art into a pack, you'll need to think its fundamental elements, such as a thumbnail, the title, a description, and other key details. Let's explore each of these components that determine an asset pack.

> ## Determine your asset pack

Reviewer: What does "Determine" mean?

Author: Finding out all the required stuffs to make a pack.

**Get your Pack Ready** sound better ?

> ### Get a thumbnail & previews files

Author: ```suggestion
### Make a thumbnail & previews files
```

---
title: Submit an Asset Pack
---

# Submit an Asset Pack

> Publish on the GDevelop's asset store, you can publish royalty-free, public domain assets, or even [sell your own game art](/gdevelop5/community/sell-asset-pack-store).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Publish on GDevelop's asset store, you can publish royalty-free, public domain assets, or even [sell your own game art](/gdevelop5/community/sell-asset-pack-store).
```

GDevelop streamlines the integration of assets into game projects, eliminating the need for manual editing the assets. To ensure seamless compatibility with the asset store, submitted art must adhere to specific technical requirements. These constraints are easily managed within the engine: simply create objects with your art, configure the objects appropriately, and GDevelop will handle the necessary processing to export your assets in a `.gdo` file format ready for the asset store.

> Before integrating your art into a pack, you'll need to think its fundamental elements, such as a thumbnail, the title, a description, and other key details. Let's explore each of these components that determine an asset pack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before integrating your art into a pack, you'll need to consider its fundamental elements, such as a thumbnail, title, description, and other key details. Let's explore each of these components that define an asset pack.
```

## Get your Pack Ready

> ### Get a Thumbnail & Previews Files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Make a thumbnail and previews files to promote your pack
```

> A pack with an attractive thumbnail makes it more visible. Additional images can help them figuring out if a pack suit their needs. Contrasted colors can be used. The thumbnail should reflect the pack's. Thumbnails that put assets in context are preferred to grids of assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A pack with an attractive thumbnail makes it more visible. Additional images can help them decide if a pack suits their needs. Use contrasting colors to make your thumbnail stand out. The thumbnail should accurately represent the contents of the pack. Thumbnails that show assets in context are preferred over simple grids of assets.
```

- Get a thumbnail:

  - Must be 16:9, `1280x720` or `1920x1080`
  - File format in `.png`
  - Must be named: `thumbnail.png`

- Get previews (This step can be skipped for free packs.):

>   - They can be from 1 to 9

Author: ```suggestion
  - They can be from 1 to 90000
```

  - Must be named `preview1.png`, `preview2.png`, ..., `preview9.png`
  - Must be 16:9, `1280x720` or `1920x1080`
  - File format in `.png` or `.gif`

  These files must be in a new `previewImages` folder.

### Get a Title

> Having a good title is important, buyers search using keywords, choose a unique and short title that represents your pack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Having a good title is important, buyers search using keywords. Choose a unique and short title that represents your pack.
```

A good asset pack title is concise, descriptive, and engaging, clearly indicating the pack's primary content and making it easily discoverable and memorable for users.

> ### Get a dDescription

Author: ```suggestion
### Get a Description
```

A good asset pack description clearly and concisely communicates the contents and value of the pack to potential users by highlighting included items, intended use cases, and any relevant details.

### The Pricing

(This step can be skipped for free packs.)

> A paid pack can have two pricing in the same time, depending of the use of the buyer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A paid pack can have two different prices, to fit the needs of the buyer.
```

- **Single Commercial**: The price for one commercial game only.

> - **Unlimited Commercial**: The price for unlimited commercial games, an unlimited number of projects and platforms.

Author: This phrase comes from the engine, so if it needs to be changed, it must be changed in the engine first.

> Usually the Unlimited Commercial is more expensive from 20% to 30%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usually the Unlimited Commercial price is 20% to 30% more expensive.
```

You can mention the prices in Euro (€) or USD ($).

### Choose a Category

Your pack must comply with at least one of these main categories:

- Full Game Asset Packs
- Prefabs (Ready-to-use Objects)
- UI/Interface
- Visual Effects
- Backgrounds
- Characters
- Props

> - Sounds and musics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sounds and music
```

Author: This line refer to this capture , is the in-engine line need to be fixed too ?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af8495e3-fcb1-445a-a471-e7f390e75b94)

- Ready-made games

### Organize Assets into Folders

> A pack is organized into folders. Each folders names will be used by the asset store as tags to let users search for assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A pack is organized into folders. Each folders name will be used by the asset store as tags to let users search for assets.
```

> Folders name should not be too specific because it's the purpose of object names. For example, objects `BlueCar` and `RedCar` should be in a folder named `Vehicle` and not `Car` because it allows users to browse every vehicle in the asset store. They can already find cars as the search also use object names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The folders name should not be too specific, because that is the purpose of object names. For example, objects `BlueCar` and `RedCar` should be in a folder named `Vehicle` and not `Car` because it allows users to browse every vehicle in the asset store. Users can still find cars easily, since the search bar also looks at object names.
```

> A pack is organized into folders. Each folders names will be used by the asset store as tags to let users search for assets.
> Folders name should not be too specific because it's the purpose of object names. For example, objects `BlueCar` and `RedCar` should be in a folder named `Vehicle` and not `Car` because it allows users to browse every vehicle in the asset store. They can already find cars as the search also use object names.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A pack is organized into folders. Each folders names will be used by the asset store as tags to let users search for assets.
Keep folder names as general as possible so the user is able to quickly find your assets.
For example, for an asset pack that contains the objects `BlueCar` and `RedCar`, it would be better to store them in a folder called "Vehicle" (a general term for transportation vehicles) instead of "Car" (a specific category). Indeed, if the user types "Car" they'll still be able to find your assets because the Asset Store also access the object names (in this case the keyword "card" in the name "Blue**Car**") to find the results.
```

---
title: Submit an Asset Pack
---

# Submit an Asset Pack

Publish on GDevelop's asset store, you can publish royalty-free, public domain assets, or even [sell your own game art](/gdevelop5/community/sell-asset-pack-store).

GDevelop streamlines the integration of assets into game projects, eliminating the need for manually editing the assets. To ensure seamless compatibility with the asset store, submitted art must adhere to specific technical requirements. These constraints are easily managed within the engine: simply create objects with your art, configure the objects appropriately, and GDevelop will handle the necessary processing to export your assets in a `.gdo` file format ready for the asset store.

Before integrating your art into a pack, you'll need to consider its fundamental elements, such as a thumbnail, title, description, and other key details. Let's explore each of these components that define an asset pack.

## Get your Pack Ready

> ### Get a Thumbnail & Previews Files

Author: ```suggestion
### Make a Thumbnail & Previews Files
```

!!! note

    When a pack contains a lot of objects, more specific folders and sub-folders can be used.

### Follow Naming Best Practices

> The objects names must be descriptive. They are used by the search engine of the asset store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The object names must be descriptive. They are used by the search engine of the asset store.
```

> The objects names must be descriptive. They are used by the search engine of the asset store.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The objects names must be descriptive as they are used by the search engine of the asset store.
Use known terms like "ManStanding" instead of branded terms like "PeterStanding" (where "Peter" would be how you named the character in your pack).
```

> Instances of good names:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples of good names:
```

- Tall Palm Tree
- Desert Background
- Yellow Sport Car

Generic names to avoid:

- Building 5

> - Player

Reviewer 3: I think explaining why they need to avoid these terms would help.
It took me some minutes to understand why "Building 5" is not a good idea.

- Item 37

> - Robert (a proper noun)

Reviewer 3: Not sure if you meant noun or name.

## Package your Art

> To ensure your asset package is valid for the Asset Store, there are two options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two ways you can package your Asset Pack to submit it to the GDevelop Store:
```

> - **Export from the engine:** Package your art files directly in GDevelop and export a `.gdo` file. This file includes the complete object configuration and folder structure as set up in the engine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Recommended: Through the engine:** Set your objects in the engine and export the `.gdo` file that was automatically generated.  This file will include the complete object configuration and folder structure as set up in the engine.
```

- **Manual packaging:** If you have a large number of assets, you can create a pack by manually organizing the files without using the game engine editor, following [the provided technical specifications](./technical-speficication.md).

> To export a a `.gdo` file from the GDevelop editor following these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export a `.gdo` file from the GDevelop editor following these steps:
```

> To export a a `.gdo` file from the GDevelop editor following these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export a `.gdo` file from the GDevelop editor, follow these steps:
```

- Create an empty scene.
- Create objects that use your art.
- Right click on **Scene Objects** and choose **Export as a pack**.

![](export-gdo.png)

### Fit Art with an Object

> Your files must all match an object type, please [follow the object page](gdevelop5/objects/) which details each type and will help you to integrate your files correctly.

Author: ```suggestion
Your files must all match an object type, please [follow the object page](/gdevelop5/objects/) which details each type and will help you to integrate your files correctly.
```

### Fonts

> Put the fonts in to a `Font` folders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Put the fonts into a `Font` folder.
```

Formats supported are:

- .ttf
- .otf

### Package Audio

> Put your audio files `.aac`, `.wav`, `.mp3` (prefer `.aac`) directly in a `Audio` folder, with the name to be displayed: `Laser effect.aac`, `Background music.aac`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Put your audio files `.aac`, `.wav`, `.mp3` (prefer `.aac`) directly into an `Audio` folder, with the name to be displayed: `Laser effect.aac`, `Background music.aac`.
```

### Limitations

GDevelop have several limitation for now, as they are:

!!! note

    - Sprite sheets **are not supported yet**! Each animation frame must **be a separate image**.
    - Each animation image must have the same pixel size as the other animation states.
    - GDevelop does not support image the origin point for different animations yet.
    - Audio files are not yet supported within the `.gdo` format. Please place your audio files in an `Audio` folder located in the same directory as your `.gdo` file. Subsequently, compress both the `.gdo` file and the Audio folder into a `.zip` or `.rar` archive for submission via the application form.

## Something Unclear?

Ask a question on [this Trello board](https://trello.com/c/s8RctC9M/2-asset-rules-and-regulations) card. If the rules here are too complicated or are giving you too much work, you can suggest a new rule and we'll see if we can adapt the importer so that it can understand your asset structure.
The goal is to make objects more or less automatically!

## Submitting the Asset Pack

> When you're ready to submit your asset pack (free or paid), compress the folder containing the `.gdo` or the other folders of your pack, then send it to the GDevelop by filling the application form with the button below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you're ready to submit your asset pack (free or paid), compress the folder containing the `.gdo` or the other folders of your pack, then send it to GDevelop by filling the application form with the button below:
```
